DOC-241 doc all possible cluster states (#323)
redpanda-data/cloud-docs: modules/manage/pages/cluster-maintenance/cluster-state.adoc

= Cluster State
:description: Learn about the current status of a cluster.

The cluster state shows the current status of a cluster. Redpanda Cloud updates this state automatically, allowing you to monitor a cluster's health and availability.

[tabs]
=====
Serverless::
+
--
[cols="1,4",options="header"]
|===
|State |Description
|Creating |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state created.
|Deleting |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed. Resources dedicated to the cluster in the data plane will be released.
|Failed |Cluster was unable to enter the ready state from either the creating or placing states.
|Placing |Cluster is in the process of being placed on a cell with sufficient resources in the data plane.
|Ready |Cluster is running and accepting external requests.

> |Suspended |Cluster is running but blocks all external requests.

Reviewer: True, automated suspension (close to 100%) of the cases is related to credit exhaustion for trial accounts. Adding a credit card unlocks clusters that transition to the Ready state again.

|===
--
BYOC/Dedicated::
+
--
[cols="1,4",options="header"]
|===
|State |Description
|Creating |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state created.

> |Creating agent |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state created, and the Redpanda Cloud agent is being deployed.  

Author: thanks @sago2k8: please let me know if the way I reordered the rows works

|Ready |Cluster is running and accepting external requests.
|Failed |Cluster was unable to enter the Ready state from either the Creating or the Creating agent states.
|Node operation in progress |Cluster is undergoing a node operation, such as adding or removing nodes.

> |Deleting agent |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed, and the Redpanda Cloud agent is being removed. 
> |Deleting |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed. Resources dedicated to the cluster in the data plane are released. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Deleting |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed. Resources dedicated to the cluster in the data plane are released.
|Deleting agent |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed, and the Redpanda Cloud agent is being removed. 
```

|Failed |Cluster was unable to enter the Ready state from either the Creating or the Creating agent states.

> |Suspended |Cluster is running but blocks all external requests. +

Reviewer 2: Yes it's possible to be in suspended state.

= Cluster State
:description: Learn about the current status of a cluster.

The cluster state shows the current status of a cluster. Redpanda Cloud updates this state automatically, allowing you to monitor a cluster's health and availability.

[tabs]
=====
Serverless::
+
--
[cols="1,4",options="header"]
|===
|State |Description
|Creating |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state created.
|Placing |Cluster is in the process of being placed on a cell with sufficient resources in the data plane.

> |Ready |Cluster is running and accepting external requests.

Reviewer 3: What do we mean exactly by external requests? Requests outside of the network?

|Deleting |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed. Resources dedicated to the cluster in the data plane will be released.
|Failed |Cluster was unable to enter the ready state from either the Creating or Placing states. +
Try re-creating the cluster.
|Suspended |Cluster is running but blocks all external requests. +
This can happen when credits run out. Enter a credit card to return to the Ready state. 
|===
--
BYOC/Dedicated::
+
--
[cols="1,4",options="header"]
|===
|State |Description
|Creating agent |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state created, and the Redpanda Cloud agent is being deployed.  
|Creating |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state created.
|Ready |Cluster is running and accepting external requests.
|Deleting |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed. Resources dedicated to the cluster in the data plane are released.

> |Deleting agent |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed, and the Redpanda Cloud agent is being removed. 

Author: Changed to "Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state and Redpanda Cloud agent removed."

> |Upgrading |Cluster is undergoing a rolling upgrade or a scale-up/scale-down operation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Upgrading |Cluster is undergoing a rolling upgrade or a scaling operation.
```

Consider this for simplicity.

|Failed |Cluster was unable to enter the Ready state from either the Creating or the Creating agent states. +
Try re-creating the cluster.
|Suspended |Cluster is running but blocks all external requests. +

> This can happen when credits run out. Enter a credit card to return to the Ready state.

Reviewer 3: are there other reasons that the cluster may enter a suspended state ?

= Cluster State
:description: Learn about the current status of a cluster.

Cluster state indicates the current status of a cluster. The cluster state is automatically updated by Redpanda Cloud and can be used to monitor the health and availability of the cluster.

[tabs]
=====
Serverless::
+
--
[cols="1,4",options="header"]
|===
|State |Description
|Creating |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state created.
|Deleted |Cluster is deleted.
|Deleting |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed. Resources dedicated to the cluster in the data plane are released.
|Failed |Cluster was unable to enter the ready state from either the creating or placing states.
|Placing |Cluster is in the process of being placed on a cell with sufficient resources in the data plane.
|Ready |Cluster is running and accepting external requests.
|Suspended |Cluster is running but blocks all external requests.
|Unrecognized |

> |Unspecified |

Author: this row has been removed

|===
--
BYOC::
+
--
[cols="1,4",options="header"]
|===
|State |Description
|Creating |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state created.
|Creating agent |
|Deleted |Cluster is deleted.
|Deleting |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed. Resources dedicated to the cluster in the data plane are released.
|Delete agent |
|Deploy agent |Redpanda Cloud has been deployed
|Failed |Cluster was unable to enter the ready state from either the creating or the creating_agent states.
|Ready |Cluster is running and accepting external requests.
|Resizing |
|Suspended |Cluster is running but blocks all external requests.
|Unknown |

> |Upgrading |

Author: fixed

|===
--
Dedicated::
+
--
[cols="1,4",options="header"]
|===
|State |Description
|Creating |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state created.
|Creating agent |
|Deleted |Cluster is deleted.
|Deleting |Cluster is in the process of having its control plane state removed. Resources dedicated to the cluster in the data plane are released.
|Delete agent |
|Failed |Cluster was unable to enter the ready state from either the creating or the creating_agent states.
|Ready |Cluster is running and accepting external requests.
|Resizing |
|Suspended |Cluster is running but blocks all external requests.
|Unknown |

> |Upgrading |

Author: fixed
